(wind whistling)
(wind howling)
(birds chirping)
(chirping continues)
(church bell tolling)
♪ The hills are alive ♪
♪ With the sound of music ♪
♪ With songs they have sung ♪
♪ For a thousand years ♪
♪ The hills fill my heart ♪
♪ With the sound of music ♪
♪ My heart wants to sing ♪
♪ Every song it hears ♪
♪ My heart wants to beat ♪
♪ Like the wings of the birds that rise ♪
♪ From the lake to the trees ♪
♪ My heart wants to sigh
like a chime that flies ♪
♪ From a church on a breeze ♪
♪ To laugh like a brook
when it trips and falls ♪
♪ Over stones on its way ♪
♪ To sing through the night ♪
♪ Like a lark who is learning to pray ♪
♪ I go to the hills ♪
♪ When my heart is lonely ♪
♪ I know I will hear ♪
♪ What I've heard before ♪
♪ My heart will be blessed ♪
♪ With the sound of music ♪
♪ And I'll sing ♪
♪ Once ♪
♪ More ♪
(church bells tolling)
(tolling continues)
Oh!
(music playing)
(female choir singing in Latin)
(chapel bell tolling)
♪ Alleluia, alleluia ♪
♪ Alleluia ♪
(singing continues)
-Reverend Mother.
-Sister Bernice.
-I simply cannot find her.
-Maria?
She's missing from the abbey again.
Perhaps we should have put
a cowbell around her neck.
Have you tried the barn?
You know how much
she adores the animals.
I have looked everywhere,
in all of the usual places.
Sister Bernice,
considering that it's Maria,
I suggest you look
in someplace unusual.
Well, Reverend Mother,
I hope this new infraction
ends whatever doubts you may
still have about Maria's future here.
I always try to keep faith
in my doubts, Sister Berthe.
After all, the wool of a black sheep
is just as warm.
We are not talking about sheep,
black or white, Sister Margaretta.
Of all the candidates
for the novitiate,
-I would say Maria is the least likely--
-Children, children!
We were speculating about the
qualifications of some of our postulants.
The mistress of novices
and the mistress of postulants
were trying to help me
by expressing opposite points of view.
Tell me, Sister Catherine,
what do you think of... Maria?
She's a wonderful girl, some of the time.
-Sister Agatha?
-It's very easy to like Maria,
except when it's, uh, difficult.
And you, Sister Sophia?
I love her very dearly,
but she always seems to be
in trouble, doesn't she?
Exactly what I say.
♪ She climbs a tree
and scrapes her knee ♪
♪ Her dress has got a tear ♪
♪ She waltzes on her way to mass ♪
♪ And whistles on the stair ♪
♪ And underneath her wimple ♪
♪ She has curlers in her hair ♪
♪ I've even heard her
singing in the abbey ♪
♪ She's always late for chapel ♪
♪ But her penitence is real ♪
♪ She's always late for everything ♪
♪ Except for every meal ♪
♪ I hate to have to say it ♪
♪ But I very firmly feel ♪
♪ Maria's not an asset to the abbey ♪
♪ I'd like to say a word in her behalf ♪
Then say it, Sister Margaretta.
♪ Maria makes me laugh ♪
(laughter)
♪ How do you solve a problem like Maria ♪
♪ How do you catch a cloud
and pin it down ♪
♪ How do you find a word
that means Maria ♪
♪ A flibbertigibbet ♪
-♪ A will-o'-the-wisp ♪
-♪ A clown ♪
♪ Many a thing you know
you'd like to tell her ♪
♪ Many a thing
she ought to understand ♪
♪ But how do you make her stay ♪
♪ And listen to all you say ♪
♪ How do you keep
a wave upon the sand ♪
♪ Oh, how do you solve
a problem like Maria ♪
♪ How do you hold a moonbeam ♪
♪ In your hand ♪
♪ When I'm with her I'm confused ♪
♪ Out of focus and bemused ♪
♪ And I never know exactly where I am ♪
♪ Unpredictable as weather ♪
♪ She's as flighty as a feather ♪
-♪ She's a darling ♪
-♪ She's a demon ♪
♪ She's a lamb ♪
♪ She'd out-pester any pest ♪
♪ Drive a hornet from its nest ♪
♪ She can throw a whirling dervish
out of whirl ♪
♪ She is gentle, she is wild ♪
♪ She's a riddle, she's a child ♪
-♪ She's a headache ♪
-♪ She's an angel ♪
♪ She's a girl ♪
♪ How do you solve a problem like Maria ♪
♪ How do you catch a cloud
and pin it down ♪
♪ How do you find a word
that means Maria ♪
♪ A flibbertigibbet ♪
-♪ A will-o'-the-wisp ♪
-♪ A clown ♪
♪ Many a thing you know
you'd like to tell her ♪
♪ Many a thing she ought to understand ♪
♪ But how do you make her stay ♪
♪ And listen to all you say ♪
♪ How do you keep
a wave upon the sand ♪
♪ Oh, how do you solve
a problem like Maria ♪
(door slams)
♪ How do you hold a moonbeam ♪
♪ In your hand ♪
You may go in now, Maria.
Come here, my child.
-Now, sit down.
-Oh!
Oh, Reverend Mother, I'm so sorry.
I just couldn't help myself.
The gates were open, and the hills
were beckoning, and before I--
Maria, I haven't summoned
you here for apologies.
Oh, please, Mother,
do let me ask for forgiveness.
If it would make you feel better.
Yes. Well, you see,
the sky was so blue today,
and everything was
so green and fragrant.
I just had to be a part of it.
And the Untersberg kept
leading me higher and higher,
as though it wanted me to go
right through the clouds with it.
But child, suppose darkness
had come and you were lost?
Oh, Mother, I could never
be lost up there.
That's my mountain.
I was brought up on it.
-It was the mountain that led me to you.
- Oh?
When I was a child,
I would come down the mountain
and climb a tree and look over
into your garden.
I'd see the sisters at work, and I'd
hear them sing on their way to vespers.
Which brings me to another transgression,
Reverend Mother.
I was singing out there today
without permission.
Maria, it is only here in the abbey that
we have rules about postulants singing.
I can't seem to stop singing
wherever I am.
And what's worse,
I can't seem to stop saying things--
everything and anything I think and feel.
Some people would call that honesty.
Oh, but it's terrible, Reverend Mother.
You know how Sister Berthe
always makes me kiss the floor
after we've had a disagreement?
Well, lately I've taken
to kissing the floor
when I see her coming just to save time.
Maria, when you saw us
over the abbey wall
and longed to be one of us,
that didn't necessarily mean
that you were prepared
for the way we live here, did it?
No, Mother,
but I-- I pray, and I try,
and I am learning, I really am.
And what is the most important
lesson you have learned here, my child?
To find out what is the will of God
and to do it wholeheartedly.
Maria...
It seems to be the will
of God that you leave us.
-Leave?
-Only for a while, Maria.
Oh, no, Mother, please don't do that.
Don't send me away.
This is where I belong.
It's my home, my family.
-It's my life.
-But are you truly ready for it?
Yes, I am.
Perhaps if you go out
into the world for a time,
knowing what we expect of you,
you will have a chance to find out
if you can expect it of yourself.
I know what you expect, Mother,
and I can do it.
-I promise I can.
-Maria.
Yes, Mother.
If it is God's will.
There is a family near Salzburg
that needs a governess until September.
-Until September?
-To take care of seven children.
-Seven children!
-Do you like children, Maria?
Well, yes, but seven!
I will tell Captain von Trapp
to expect you tomorrow.
Uh, Captain?
A retired officer of the Imperial Navy.
A fine man and a brave one.
His wife died several years ago,
leaving him alone with the children.
I understand he's had a most difficult
time managing to keep a governess there.
Uh, why difficult,
Reverend Mother?
The Lord will show you
in his own good time.
(female choir singing in Latin)
When the Lord closes a door,
somewhere he opens a window.
♪ What will this day be like ♪
♪ I wonder ♪
♪ What will my future be ♪
♪ It could be so exciting ♪
♪ To be out in the world
To be free ♪
♪ My heart should be
wildly rejoicing ♪
♪ Oh, what's the matter with me ♪
♪ I have always longed for adventure ♪
♪ To do the things I've never dared ♪
♪ Now here I'm facing adventure ♪
♪ Then why ♪
♪ Am I so scared ♪
♪ A captain with seven children ♪
♪ What's so fearsome about that ♪
♪ Oh, I must stop these doubts
all these worries ♪
♪ If I don't I just know I'll turn back ♪
♪ I must dream of the things
I am seeking ♪
♪ I am seeking the courage I lack ♪
♪ The courage to serve them
with reliance ♪
♪ Face my mistakes without defiance ♪
♪ Show them I'm worthy ♪
♪ And while I show them ♪
♪ I'll show me ♪
♪ So let them bring on
all their problems ♪
♪ I'll do better than my best ♪
♪ I have confidence
they'll put me to the test ♪
♪ But I'll make them see
I have confidence in me ♪
♪ Somehow I will impress them ♪
♪ I will be firm but kind ♪
♪ And all those children
Heaven bless them ♪
♪ They will look up to me and mind me ♪
♪ With each step I am more certain ♪
♪ Everything will turn out fine ♪
♪ I have confidence
the world can all be mine ♪
♪ They'll have to agree
I have confidence in me ♪
♪ I have confidence in sunshine ♪
♪ I have confidence in rain ♪
♪ I have confidence
that spring will come again ♪
♪ Besides which, you see
I have confidence in me ♪
♪ Strength doesn't lie in numbers ♪
♪ Strength doesn't lie in wealth ♪
♪ Strength lies in nights
of peaceful slumbers ♪
♪ When you wake up, wake up It tells me ♪
♪ All I trust I leave my heart to ♪
♪ All I trust becomes my own ♪
♪ I have confidence in confidence alone ♪
Oh, help.
♪ Besides which, you see
I have confidence ♪
♪ In me ♪
(doorbell rings)
Oh! Whew!
Hello! Here I am.
I'm from the convent.
I'm the new governess, Captain.
And I'm the old butler, fräulein.
Oh. Well, how do you do?
Hmm.
You'll, uh, wait here, please.
(door opens)
In the future, you'll kindly remember
there are certain rooms in this house
which are not to be disturbed.
Yes, Captain, sir.
And why do you stare at me that way?
Well, you don't look at all
like a sea captain, sir.
I'm afraid you don't look
very much like a governess.
Turn around, please.
-What?
-Turn.
Hat off.
(sighs) It's the dress.
You'll have to put on another one
before you meet the children.
But I don't have another one.
When-- When we enter the abbey,
our worldly clothes are given to the poor.
What about this one?
-The poor didn't want this one.
-Hmm.
I would have made myself a new dress,
but there wasn't time.
I can make my own clothes.
Well, I'll see that you
get some material.
Today, if possible.
-Now, Fräulein, um--
-Maria.
Fräulein Maria, I don't know how much
-the mother abbess has told you.
-Not much.
You are the 12th in a long line
of governesses
who have come to look after my children
since their mother died.
I trust that you will be
an improvement on the last one.
She stayed only two hours.
What's wrong with the children, sir?
There's nothing wrong with the children,
only the governesses.
Oh.
They were completely unable
to maintain discipline.
Without it, this house
cannot be properly run.
-You will please remember that, fräulein?
-Yes, sir.
Every morning you will drill
the children in their studies.
I will not permit them to dream away
their summer holidays.
Each afternoon they will march
about the grounds, breathing deeply.
Bedtime is to be strictly observed,
no exceptions.
Excuse me, sir.
When do they play?
You will see to it that they
conduct themselves at all time
with the utmost orderliness and decorum.
-I'm placing you in command.
-Oh, yes, sir!
(whistle blows)
(running footsteps)
(whistle blows rhythmically)
(whistle continues blowing rhythmically)
(whistle blows twice)
Hup.
Now, this is your new governess,
Fräulein Maria.
As I sound your signals,
you will step forward and give your name.
You, fräulein, will listen carefully.
Learn their signals so you can
call them when you want them.
(blows three times)
-Liesl.
-(whistle blows twice)
-Friedrich.
-(blows three times)
-Louisa.
-(blows once)
-Kurt.
-(blows five times)
-Brigitta.
-(blows four times)
-Marta.
-(blows six times)
(whistle blows louder)
And Gretl. (clears throat)
Now, let's see how well you listened.
Oh, I-I won't need to whistle for them,
Reverend Captain.
I mean, um, I'll use their names.
And such lovely names.
VON TRAPP: Fräulein,
this is a large house.
The grounds are very extensive,
and I will not have anyone shouting.
You will take this, please.
Learn to use it.
The children will help you.
Now, when I want you,
this is what you will hear.
-(sharp whistling)
-Oh, no, sir. I'm sorry, sir.
I could never answer to a whistle.
Whistles are for dogs
and cats and other animals,
but not for children,
and definitely not for me.
It would be too humiliating.
Fräulein, were you this much trouble
at the abbey?
-Oh, much more, sir.
-Hmm.
(whistle blows)
Excuse me, sir.
I don't know your signal.
You may call me Captain.
(children chuckling)
(sighs) At ease.
Well, now that there's just us,
would you please tell me all your names
again and how old you are?
I'm Liesl. I'm 16 years old
and I don't need a governess.
Well, I'm glad you told me, Liesl.
We'll just be good friends.
I'm Friedrich. I'm 14. I'm impossible.
(chuckles) Really?
Who told you that, Friedrich?
Fräulein Josephine,
four governesses ago.
I'm Brigitta.
You, um, didn't tell me
how old you are, Louisa.
I'm Brigitta. She's Louisa.
She's 13 years old, and you're smart.
I'm 10, and I think your dress
is the ugliest one I ever saw.
Brigitta, you shouldn't say that.
Why not? Don't you think it's ugly?
Of course,
but Fräulein Hilda's was ugliest.
I'm Kurt. I'm 11. I'm incorrigible.
Congratulations.
What's "incorrigible"?
I think it means you want
to be treated like a boy.
Mm-hm?
I'm Marta, and I'm gonna
be seven on Tuesday.
And I'd like a pink parasol.
Well, pink's my favorite color, too.
-(stomping)
-Yes, you're Gretl.
And you're five years old?
My, you're practically a lady.
(girls chuckle)
Now I have to tell you a secret--
I've never been a governess before.
You mean you don't know anything
about being a governess?
Nothing. I'll need lots of advice.
Well, the best way to start
is to be sure to tell Father
to mind his own business.
-You must never come to dinner on time.
-Uh--
-Never eat your soup quietly.
-(slurps)
And during dessert,
always blow your nose.
Don't you believe a word they say,
Fräulein Maria.
-Why not?
-Because I like you!
-Yes.
-(clapping)
All right now, children!
Outside for your walk. Father's orders.
Now, hurry up, hurry up.
Quick, quick, quick, quick, quick!
-Uh, Fräulein Maria.
-Mmm.
-I'm Frau Schmidt, the housekeeper.
-How do you do?
How do you do?
I'll show you to your room. Follow me.
MARIA: Poor little dears.
(gasps, screaming)
-Oh!
-You're very lucky.
-With Fräulein Helga, it was a snake.
-(exhales)
Good evening.
-Good evening, children.
-ALL: Good evening, Fräulein Maria.
(screams, laughing)
-(groans)
-Enchanting little ritual.
Something you, um,
learned at the abbey?
No, um, it's, um... um...
-(patting)
-...rheumatism.
Hmm.
Excuse me, Captain.
Haven't we forgotten to thank the Lord?
For what we are about to receive,
may the Lord make us truly thankful. Amen.
-Amen.
-CHILDREN: Amen.
I'd like to thank each and every
one of you for the precious gift
you left in my pocket earlier today.
Um, what gift?
It's meant to be a secret, Captain,
between the children and me.
Uh-huh. Then I suggest that
you keep it and let us eat.
Knowing how nervous
I must have been,
a stranger in a new household,
knowing how important it was
for me to feel accepted,
it was so kind and thoughtful of you
to make my first moments
here so warm and happy and pleasant.
(cries)
-What is the matter, Marta?
-Nothing.
(children crying)
Fräulein, is it to be at every meal,
or merely at, uh, dinnertime,
that you intend leading us all
through this rare
and wonderful new world of indigestion?
Oh, they're all right, Captain.
They're just happy.
(crying louder)
(doorbell rings)
-Herr Rolfe, good evening.
-Good evening, Franz.
-I trust everything is under control?
-Yes. Yes.
Good.
-Are there, uh, any developments?
-Perhaps.
-Is the captain at home?
-He's at dinner.
-With the family?
-Yes.
Please give him this telegram at once.
Certainly.
-A telegram for you, sir.
-Mmm.
Franz, who delivered it?
That young lad, Rolfe, of course.
-Father, may I be excused?
-Hmm. Children.
In the morning,
I shall be going to Vienna.
ALL: Not again, Father!
How long will you be gone
this time, Father?
I'm not sure, Gretl. Not sure.
LOUISA: To visit Baroness
Schraeder again?
Mind your own business!
As a matter of fact, yes, Louisa.
Why can't we ever get
to see the baroness?
KURT: Why would she want to see you?
It just so happens, Marta,
that you are going to see the baroness.
I'm bringing her back with me
to visit us all.
CHILDREN: Good!
And Uncle Max.
-Uncle Max!
Rolfe!
Oh, Rolfe.
No, Liesl, we mustn't.
-Why not, silly?
-I don't know. It's just--
Isn't this why you're here waiting for me?
Yes, of course.
I've missed you, Liesl.
You have? How much?
So much that I even
thought of sending you a telegram
just so I'd be able to deliver it here.
Oh, that's a lovely thought.
Why don't you, right now?
But I'm here.
Please, Rolfe, send me a telegram.
I'll start it for you. Dear Liesl...
Dear Liesl.
I'd like to be able to tell you
how I feel about you. Stop.
Unfortunately, this wire
is already too expensive.
-Sincerely, Rolfe.
-"Sincerely"?
-Cordially.
-"Cordially"?
Affectionately?
Mmm!
Will there be any reply?
Dear Rolfe. Stop.
Don't stop. Your Liesl.
If only we didn't always have to wait
for someone to send Father a telegram.
How do I know when I'll see you again?
Well, let's see.
I could come here by mistake...
with a telegram for Colonel Schneider.
He's here from Berlin, staying with--
No one's supposed
to know he's here.
-Don't tell your father, now.
-Why not?
-Well, your father's so... so Austrian.
-We're all Austrian.
Well, some people think
we ought to be German,
and they're very mad
at those who don't think so.
They're getting ready to--
Well, let's hope your father
doesn't get into trouble.
Don't worry about Father.
He's a big naval hero.
-He was even decorated by the emperor.
-I know.
I don't worry about him,
but I do worry about his daughter.
Me? Why?
-Well, you're so--
-What?
Well, you're such a baby!
I'm 16. What's such a baby about that?
♪ You wait, little girl
on an empty stage ♪
♪ For fate to turn the light on ♪
♪ Your life, little girl
is an empty page ♪
♪ That men will want to write on ♪
♪ To write on ♪
♪ You are sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ Baby, it's time to think ♪
♪ Better beware
Be canny and careful ♪
♪ Baby, you're on the brink ♪
♪ You are sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ Fellows will fall in line ♪
♪ Eager young lads
and roues and cads ♪
♪ Will offer you food and wine ♪
♪ Totally unprepared are you ♪
♪ To face a world of men ♪
♪ Timid and shy and scared are you ♪
♪ Of things beyond your ken ♪
♪ You need someone older and wiser ♪
♪ Telling you what to do ♪
♪ I am seventeen going on eighteen ♪
♪ I'll take care of you ♪
(thunder rumbling)
(thunderclap)
♪ I am sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ I know that I'm naive ♪
♪ Fellows I meet may tell me I'm sweet ♪
♪ And willingly I believe ♪
♪ I am sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ Innocent as a rose ♪
♪ Bachelor dandies ♪
♪ Drinkers of brandies ♪
♪ What do I know of those ♪
♪ Totally unprepared am I ♪
♪ To face a world of men ♪
♪ Timid and shy and scared am I ♪
♪ Of things beyond my ken ♪
♪ I need someone older and wiser ♪
♪ Telling me what to do ♪
♪ You are seventeen going on eighteen ♪
♪ I'll depend on you ♪
(thunder rumbling)
Whee!
(thunderclaps)
-(knocking)
-Come in.
Frau Schmidt.
For your new dresses, Fräulein Maria.
The captain had these sent out from town.
Oh, how lovely.
Oh, I'm sure these will make
the prettiest clothes I've ever had.
Tell me, do you think the captain would
get me some more material if I asked him?
How many dresses does a governess need?
-(window bangs)
-No, not for me. For the children.
I want to make them some play clothes.
The von Trapp children don't play.
They march.
Surely, you don't approve of that.
Ever since the captain
lost his poor wife, he--
he runs this house as if he were
on one of his ships again.
Whistles, orders.
No more music, no more laughing.
Nothing that reminds him of her.
-Even the children.
-But it's so wrong!
Oh, well. How do you like your room?
-There'll be new drapes at the windows.
-Mmm.
New drapes? But these are fine.
Nevertheless, new ones have been ordered.
Oh, but I really don't need them.
-Good night now.
-Frau Schmidt.
Do you think if I asked the captain
tomorrow about the material--
He's leaving for Vienna
in the morning.
Oh, yes, of course.
Well, how long will he be gone?
That all depends.
The last time he visited the baroness,
he stayed for a month.
Oh.
I shouldn't be saying this-- not to you.
I mean, I don't know you that well.
But if you ask me,
the captain's thinking very seriously
of marrying the woman
before the summer's over.
Oh, that would be wonderful.
Well, the children will
have a mother again.
Yes. Well, good night.
-Good night.
-(thunder rumbling)
-(thunderclap)
-(rain falling)
Dear Father, now I know
why you've sent me here.
To help these children prepare
themselves for a new mother.
And I pray that this will become
a happy family in thy sight.
God bless the captain.
God bless Liesl and Friedrich.
God bless Louisa, Brigitta,
Marta and little Gretl.
And, oh, I forgot the other boy.
What's his name?
(thunder rumbling)
Well, God bless what's-his-name.
God bless the reverend mother
and Sister Margaretta...
...and everybody at Nonnberg Abbey.
And now, dear God, about Liesl--
Help her to know that I'm her friend.
And help her to tell me
what she's been up to.
-Are you going to tell on me?
-Shh.
Help me to be understanding
so that I may guide her footsteps.
In the name of the Father and of the Son
and the Holy Ghost. Amen.
I was out taking a walk, and somebody
locked the doors earlier than usual,
and I didn't want to wake everybody up.
So when I saw your window open--
You're not going to tell Father, are you?
Hmm.
How in the world
did you climb up here?
It's how we always got into this room
to play tricks on the governess.
Louisa can make it with a whole jar of
spiders in her hand.
-(closes window)
-Spiders?
Oh. Liesl.
Were you out walking all by yourself?
You know, if we wash that dress out
tonight, nobody would notice it tomorrow.
You could put this on.
Take your dress in there.
Put it to soak in the bathtub.
Then come back here and sit on the bed,
and we'll have a talk.
I told you today
I didn't need a governess.
Well, maybe I do.
(thunderclap)
Gretl? Are you scared?
You're not frightened
of a thunderstorm, are you?
You just stay right here with me. Oh!
-Where are the others?
-They're asleep. They're not scared.
(thunderclap)
Oh, no? Look.
All right, everybody.
Up here on the bed.
-BRIGITTA: Really?
-Well, just this once. Come on.
Now, all we have to do
is wait for the boys.
You won't see them.
Boys are brave.
(thunderclap)
Uh, you boys weren't scared too,
were you?
Oh, no. We just wanted
to be sure that you weren't.
That's very thoughtful of you, Friedrich.
It wasn't my idea.
It was Kurt's.
Kurt! That's the one I left out.
God bless Kurt.
(thunderclap)
Why does it do that?
Well, the lightning
says something to the thunder,
and the thunder answers back.
-The lightning must be nasty.
-Not really.
Then why does the thunder
get so angry?
It makes me want to cry.
(thunderclap)
Well, now, when anything bothers me
and I'm feeling unhappy,
I just try and think of nice things.
LOUISA, MARTA:
What kind of things?
Oh! Well, let me see.
Nice things--
Daffodils!
Green meadows.
Skies full of stars.
Raindrops on roses
and whiskers on kittens.
♪ Bright copper kettles
and warm woolen mittens ♪
♪ Brown paper packages
tied up with strings ♪
-♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
-(thunderclap)
♪ Cream-colored ponies
and crisp apple strudels ♪
♪ Doorbells and sleigh bells
and schnitzel with noodles ♪
♪ Wild geese that fly
with the moon on their wings ♪
♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
(children laughing)
♪ Girls in white dresses
with blue satin sashes ♪
♪ Snowflakes that stay
on my nose and eyelashes ♪
♪ Silver white winters
that melt into springs ♪
♪ These are a few
of my favorite things ♪
♪ When the dog bites ♪
♪ When the bee stings ♪
♪ When I'm feeling sad ♪
-♪ I simply remember my favorite things ♪
-(giggling)
♪ And then I don't feel ♪
♪ So bad ♪
-Does it really work?
-Of course it does. You try it.
What things do you like?
-Pussy willows.
-Christmas!
-Bunny rabbits!
-KURT: Snakes!
-(squealing)
-BRIGITTA: Chocolate icing!
-No school!
-KURT: Pillow fights!
-Telegrams!
-Birthday presents!
-Any presents!
-Yes!
-GRETL: Ladybugs!
-MARTA: Cats!
-KURT: Rats!
-A good sneeze!
-KURT: Ah-choo!
-Gesundheit!
See what fun it is?
♪ Raindrops on roses
and whiskers on kittens ♪
-♪ Bright copper kettles ♪
-(window bangs)
♪ And warm woolen mittens ♪
♪ Brown paper packages
tied up with strings ♪
♪ These are a few
of my favorite things ♪
Oh!
♪ Cream-colored ponies
and crisp apple strudels ♪
♪ Doorbells and sleigh bells
and schnitzel with noodles ♪
♪ Wild geese that fly
with the moon on their wings ♪
♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
Oh! Together!
♪ Girls in white dresses
with blue satin sashes ♪
♪ Snowflakes that stay
on my nose and eyelashes ♪
♪ Silver white winters
that melt into springs ♪
♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
♪ When the dog bi-- ♪
Dog bites-- We--
-Hello.
-Fräulein, did I not tell you
that bedtime is to be strictly
observed in this house?
Well, the children were upset
by the storm, so I thought that if I--
You did, sir.
And do you or do you not have difficulty
remembering such simple instructions?
Only during thunderstorms, sir.
(giggles)
-Liesl?
-Yes, Father?
I don't recall seeing you
anywhere after dinner.
Oh, really? Well, as a matter of fact--
-Yes?
-Well, I-- I was--
What she would like to say, Captain,
is that, uh, she and I have been
getting better acquainted tonight.
But it's much too late now
to go into all that.
Come along, children, you heard your
father. Go back to bed immediately.
Fräulein, you have managed to remember
that I'm leaving in the morning?
Is it also possible that you remember
that the first rule
in this house is discipline?
Then I trust that before I return,
you will have acquired some?
Captain?
Uh, I wonder if, before you go,
I-- I could talk to you
about some clothes for the children,
for when they play.
-Fräulein Maria.
-If I could just have some material--
You are obviously many things,
not the least of which is repetitious.
-But they're children!
-Yes.
And I'm their father. Good night.
(door closes)
Oh!
(thunderclap)
♪ Girls in white dresses
with blue satin sashes ♪
♪ When the dog bites ♪
♪ When the bee stings ♪
♪ When I'm feeling sad ♪
♪ I simply remember my favorite things ♪
♪ And then I don't feel ♪
♪ So bad ♪
-(children giggling)
-BRIGITTA: Where are we going?
Here. Look over here. See?
Oh, look! Come on!
Come on!
Ho!
(children laughing, chattering)
Whee! Come on!
(screaming, laughing)
-LOUISA: Fräulein Maria.
-Mm-hm?
Can we do this every day?
Don't you think you'd soon
get tired of it, Louisa?
I suppose so. Every other day?
KURT: I haven't had so much fun
since the day we put glue
on Fräulein Josephine's toothbrush.
I can't understand how
children as nice as you
can manage to play such
awful tricks on people.
-BRIGITTA: Oh, it's easy.
-But why do it?
Well, how else can we get
Father's attention?
-Yes.
-Oh, I see.
Well, we'll have to think about that one.
(claps) All right, everybody!
Over here!
MARTA: What are we going to do?
Let's think of something to sing
for the baroness when she comes.
MARTA: Father doesn't like us to sing.
Well, perhaps we can
change his mind.
Now, what songs do you know?
-We don't know any songs.
-Not any?
-LOUISA: We don't even know how to sing.
-LIESL: No.
Well, let's not lose any time.
You must learn.
GRETL: But how?
♪ Let's start at the very beginning ♪
♪ A very good place to start ♪
♪ When you read you begin with ♪
♪ A-B-C ♪
♪ When you sing you begin with ♪
♪ Do Re Mi ♪
CHILDREN: ♪ Do Re Mi ♪
♪ The first three notes
just happen to be ♪
♪ Do Re Mi ♪
CHILDREN: ♪ Do Re Mi ♪
♪ Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti ♪
Oh, let's see if I can
make it easier. Mmm.
♪ Doe, a deer, a female deer ♪
♪ Ray, a drop of golden sun ♪
♪ Me, a name I call myself ♪
♪ Far, a long, long way to run ♪
♪ Sew, a needle pulling thread ♪
♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
♪ Tea, a drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to Do ♪
♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
-♪ Doe ♪
-♪ A deer, a female deer ♪
-♪ Ray ♪
-♪ A drop of golden sun ♪
-♪ Me ♪
-♪ A name I call myself ♪
-♪ Far ♪
-♪ A long, long way to run ♪
♪ Sew, a needle pulling thread ♪
♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
-♪ Tea ♪
-♪ A drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to ♪
-♪ Doe ♪
-♪ A deer, a female deer ♪
♪ Ray, a drop of golden sun ♪
♪ Me, a name I call myself ♪
♪ Far, a long, long way to run ♪
♪ Sew, a needle pulling thread ♪
♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
♪ Tea, a drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to Do ♪
♪ Do Re Mi Fa So La Ti Do
So Do ♪
Now, children,
Do, Re, Mi, Fa, So and so on
are only the tools we use to build a song.
Once you have these notes
in your heads,
you can sing a million different tunes
by mixing them up.
Like this. Uh--
♪ So Do La Fa Mi Do Re ♪
Can you do that?
ALL: ♪ So Do La Fa Mi Do Re ♪
♪ So Do La Ti Do Re Do ♪
Now, put it all together.
♪ So Do La Fa Mi Do Re ♪
♪ So Do La Ti Do Re Do ♪
-Good!
-But it doesn't mean anything.
So we put in words,
one word for every note. Like this.
♪ When you know the notes to sing ♪
♪ You can sing most anything ♪
Together!
ALL: ♪ When you know the notes to sing ♪
♪ You can sing most anything ♪
-♪ Doe ♪
-♪ A deer, a female deer ♪
-♪ Ray ♪
-♪ A drop of golden sun ♪
-♪ Me ♪
-♪ A name I call myself ♪
-♪ Far ♪
-♪ A long, long way to run ♪
-♪ Sew ♪
-♪ A needle pulling thread ♪
-♪ La ♪
-♪ A note to follow sew ♪
-♪ Tea ♪
-♪ A drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to Do ♪
(trading off)
♪ Do, Re, Mi, Fa, So, La, Ti ♪
-♪ Do Do ♪
-(trading off) ♪ Ti, La, So, Fa, Mi, Re ♪
-♪ Do ♪
-♪ Mi-Mi ♪
-♪ Mi ♪
-♪ So-So ♪
-♪ Re ♪
-♪ Fa-Fa ♪
-♪ La ♪
-♪ Ti-Ti ♪
(trading off) ♪ Do Mi-Mi, Mi So-So ♪
♪ Re Fa-Fa, La Ti-Ti ♪
-♪ When you know ♪
-♪ Do Mi-Mi, Mi So-So Re Fa-Fa, La Ti-Ti ♪
-♪ The notes to sing ♪
-♪ You can sing ♪
-♪ Do Mi-Mi, Mi So-So Re Fa-Fa, La Ti-Ti ♪
ALL: ♪ Most anything ♪
♪ Doe, a deer, a female deer ♪
♪ Ray, a drop of golden sun ♪
♪ Me, a name I call myself ♪
♪ Far, a long, long way to run ♪
♪ Sew, a needle pulling thread ♪
♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
♪ Tea, a drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to ♪
-♪ Do ♪
-♪ So Do ♪
-♪ Re ♪
-♪ La Fa ♪
-♪ Mi ♪
-♪ Mi Do ♪
-♪ Fa ♪
-♪ Re ♪
-♪ So ♪
-♪ So Do ♪
-♪ La ♪
-♪ La Fa ♪
-♪ Ti ♪
-♪ La So ♪
♪ Mi Fa ♪
♪ Ti Re ♪
♪ Ti Do ♪
♪ So Do ♪
The mountains are magnificent,
Georg, really magnificent.
I had them put up
just for you, darling.
-Oh.
-Even if it's to a height of 10,000 feet,
Georg always believes
in rising to the occasion.
Unless the jokes improve, Max,
I'm taking back my invitation.
You didn't invite me to your villa.
I invited myself.
Naturally.
You needed a chaperone,
and I needed a place to stay
where the cuisine is superb,
the wine cellar unexcelled
and the price, uh, perfect.
(laughs) Max, you are outrageous!
Not at all.
I'm a very charming sponge.
MALE CHOIR:
♪ Alleluia, alleluia ♪
-Listen.
-♪ Alleluia ♪
VON TRAPP: That's the Klopmann
Monastery Choir.
♪ Alleluia, alleluia ♪
They're good.
Very good.
I must explore this territory
in the next few days.
Somewhere a hungry little singing group
is waiting for Max Detweiler
to pluck it out of obscurity and make it
famous at the Salzburg Folk Festival.
They get the fame. You get the money.
'Tis unfair, I admit it.
But someday that'll be changed.
-I shall get the fame, too.
-(laughs)
(children laughing, screaming)
BARONESS: Good heavens, what's this?
Oh, it's nothing.
Just some local urchins.
(laughing, chattering, whooping)
(sighs) This really is exciting for me,
Georg, being here with you.
(laughs) Trees, lakes, mountains--
when you've seen one,
you've seen them all.
That is not what I mean, and you know it.
Ah, you mean me. I'm exciting.
Is that so impossible?
No, just, uh, highly improbable.
There you go, running yourself down again.
-Well, I'm a dangerous driver.
-(laughs)
You know, you're much less of a riddle
when I see you here, Georg.
-In my natural habitat?
-Yes, exactly.
Are you trying to say
that I'm more at home here
among the birds and the flowers
and the wind that moves through
the trees like a restless sea, hmm?
How poetic.
Yes, it was rather, wasn't it?
More at home here than in Vienna,
in all your glittering salons,
gossiping gaily with bores I detest,
soaking myself in champagne,
stumbling about to waltzes by Strauss
I can't even remember.
-Is that what you're trying to say?
-More or less, yes.
Now, what ever gave you that idea?
(sighs) Oh, I do like it here, Georg.
It's so lovely and peaceful.
How can you leave it
as often as you do?
Oh, pretending to be
madly active, I suppose.
Activity suggests a life filled
with purpose.
Could it be running away from memories?
Mm-hm.
Or perhaps just searching
for a reason to stay.
Oh, I hope that's why you've been
coming to Vienna so often.
Or were there other distractions there?
Oh, I'd hardly call you
a mere distraction, darling.
Well, what would you
call me, Georg?
Hmm. Lovely.
Charming, witty, graceful.
The perfect hostess.
And, uh... you're gonna
hate me for this...
...in a way, my savior.
Oh, how unromantic.
I would be an ungrateful
wretch if I didn't tell you at least once
that it was you who brought some
meaning back into my life.
Oh, I am amusing, I suppose.
And I do have the finest
couturier in Vienna...
and the most glittering
circle of friends.
-And I do give some rather gay parties.
-(laughs) Oh, yes.
But take all that away,
and you have just...
wealthy, unattached little me
searching just like you.
(chuckles)
More strudel, Herr Detweiler?
-How many have I had?
-Two.
-Make it an uneven three.
-(chuckles)
Still eating, Max, hmm?
Tsk, tsk. Must be unhappy.
That marvelous mixed quartet
I've been trying for months
-to steal away from Sol Hurok--
-What happened, darling?
Yesterday, Sascha Petrie stole them first.
If there's one thing I hate, it's a thief.
Max, you really must try
and learn to, uh, love yourself.
For this, I had to call Paris,
Rome and Stockholm.
-On Georg's telephone, of course?
-How else could I afford it?
Oh, dear, I like rich people.
I like the way they live.
I like the way I live when I'm with them.
I wonder where the children are.
Obviously they must have heard
I was coming and went into hiding.
I was hoping they'd
be here to welcome you.
Uh, Max, do step out of character
for a moment and try and be charming.
(door opens, closes)
Well?
Well what?
Have you made up Georg's mind yet?
Do I hear wedding bells?
-Pealing madly.
-Marvelous.
-But not necessarily for me.
-What kind of talk's that?
That is none-of-your-business talk, Max.
I'm terribly fond of Georg,
and I will not have you toying with us.
But I'm a child. I like toys.
So tell me everything.
Oh, come on, tell Max
every teensy-weensy,
intimate, disgusting detail.
Well, let's just say I have a feeling
I may be here on approval.
Well, I approve of that.
How can you miss?
Far too easily.
If I know you, darling, and I do,
you will find a way.
-Oh, he's no ordinary man.
-No. He's rich.
When his wife died,
she left him with a terrible heartache.
And when your husband died,
he left you with a terrible fortune.
Oh, Max, you really are a beast.
You and Georg are like family to me.
That's why I want to see
you two get married.
We must keep all that
lovely money in the family.
(chuckles)
What are you doing there?
Captain von Trapp!
I was just looking for--
I didn't see--
I mean, I didn't know you were--
Heil Hitler!
Who are you?
I have a telegram for Herr Detweiler.
I'm Herr Detweiler.
Yes, sir.
All right, you've delivered your telegram.
Now get out.
Oh, Georg, he's just a boy.
Yes, and I'm just an Austrian.
What's gonna happen's going to happen.
Just make sure it doesn't happen to you.
Max, don't you ever say that again!
You know I have no political convictions.
Can I help it if other people do?
Oh, yes, you can help it!
You must help it.
Hello.
You're far away.
Where are you?
In a world that's disappearing,
I'm afraid.
Is there any way I could bring you back
to the world I'm in?
(children chattering)
(chattering, screaming)
CHILDREN: ♪ Sew, a needle
pulling thread ♪
♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
♪ Tea, a drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ That will bring us back to Do ♪
-♪ Oh, oh, oh ♪
-♪ Doe, a deer ♪
-♪ A female deer ♪
-(screaming, laughing)
-CHILDREN: Father! Father!
-What? Is it your father?
Oh! Oh, Captain.
You're home. Oh! Oh!
(screaming)
Come out of that water at once!
Oh! You must be Baroness Schraeder.
(stifles laughter)
Oh, I'm soaked to the skin!
(children speaking at once)
(whistle blows)
Straight line!
This is Baroness Schraeder.
And these are my children.
How do you do?
All right. Go inside.
Dry off. Clean up.
Change your clothes.
Report back here.
Immediately!
Fräulein, you will stay here, please.
I, uh-- (clears throat)
I think I'd better go see
what Max is up to.
Now, fräulein...
I want a truthful answer from you.
Yes, Captain?
Is it possible--
or could I have just imagined it--
Have my children, by any chance,
been climbing trees today?
-Yes, Captain.
-I see.
And where, may I ask,
did they get these, um...
-Play clothes.
-Oh, is that what you call them?
I made them from the drapes
that used to hang in my bedroom.
-Drapes?
-They still had plenty of wear left.
The children have been everywhere in them.
Do you mean to tell me that my children
have been roaming about Salzburg
dressed up in nothing but some old drapes?
Mm-hm, and having a marvelous time.
-They have uniforms.
-Straitjackets, if you'll forgive me.
I will not forgive you for that.
Children cannot do the things
they're supposed to do
if they have to worry about
spoiling their precious clothes.
-I haven't heard them complain yet.
-Well, they wouldn't dare.
They love you too much.
They fear you too much.
I don't wish you to discuss
my children in this manner.
You've got to hear from someone.
You're never home long enough--
I said I don't want
to hear any more from you--
I know you don't, but you've got to!
-Now, take Liesl--
-You'll not say one word about Liesl.
One of these days, you're gonna
wake up and find she's a woman.
You won't even know her.
And Friedrich, he's a boy,
but wants to be a man like you,
and there's no one to show him how.
Don't you dare tell me about my son.
Brigitta could tell you about him,
if you'd let her get close to you.
She notices everything.
And Kurt pretends he's tough
not to show how hurt he is
-when you brush him aside...
-That will do.
...the way you do all of them.
Louisa, I don't know about,
-but someone has to find out about her.
-I said that will do!
And the little ones just want to be loved.
Oh, please, love them, love them all.
I don't care to hear anything further
from you about my children!
-I am not finished yet, Captain!
-Oh, yes, you are, Captain--
Fräulein.
Now, you will pack
your things this minute
and return to the abbey.
CHILDREN: ♪ The hills are alive ♪
-♪ With the sound of music ♪
-What's that?
-LIESL: ♪Ah ah ah ah ♪
-It's singing.
Yes, I realize it's singing,
but who is singing?
The children.
-♪ For a thousand years ♪
-♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
The children?
I taught them something
to sing for the baroness.
♪ With the sound of music ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ My heart wants to sing ♪
♪ Every song it hears ♪
♪ Every song that it hears ♪
♪ My heart wants to beat ♪
♪ Like the wings
of the birds that rise ♪
♪ From the lake to the trees ♪
♪ To the trees ♪
♪ My heart wants to sigh
like a chime that flies ♪
♪ From a church on a breeze ♪
♪ To laugh like a brook ♪
-(humming)
-♪ When it trips and falls ♪
♪ Over stones on its way ♪
♪ On its way ♪
-(singing along)
-♪ To sing through the night ♪
♪ Like a lark who is learning to pray ♪
♪ I go to the hills ♪
-♪ When my heart is lonely ♪
-(children stop singing)
♪ I know I will hear ♪
♪ What I've heard before ♪
-♪ My heart will be blessed ♪
-(children harmonizing)
♪ With the sound of music ♪
♪ And I'll ♪
(with children) ♪ Sing ♪
♪ Once ♪
♪ More ♪
VON TRAPP (chuckles): Oh.
Edelweiss.
You never told me
how enchanting your children are.
Don't go away.
Fräulein.
I...
...behaved badly.
I apologize.
Oh, I'm far too outspoken.
It's one of my worst faults.
You were right.
I don't know my children.
There's still time, Captain.
They want so much to be close to you.
You brought music back into the house.
I'd forgotten.
Fräulein.
I want you to stay.
I... ask you to stay.
If I could be of any help--
You have already.
More than you know.
MARIA: Marta. Curtain!
MARIA: ♪ High on a hill
was a lonely goatherd ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl lay-ee-o ♪
♪ Loud was the voice
of the lonely goatherd ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
♪ Folks in a town that
was quite remote heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl lay-ee-o ♪
♪ Lusty and clear
from the goatherd's throat heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
CHILDREN: ♪ O-ho laydee-o-dl-ee-o ♪
♪ O-ho laydee-o-dl-ay ♪
♪ O-ho laydee-o-dl-ee-o ♪
♪ Laydee-o-dl-ee o-lay ♪
MARIA: Marta! Marta!
(gasps)
Gretl, the prince!
MARIA: ♪ A prince on the bridge
of a castle moat heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl lay-ee-oo ♪
CHILDREN: ♪ Men on a road
with a load to tote heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee o-dl-oo ♪
♪ Men in the midst
of a table d'hôte heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl lay-ee-o ♪
♪ Men drinking beer
with the foam afloat heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
(coughs)
MARIA: ♪ One little girl
in a pale pink coat heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl
layee-o-dl lay-ee-o ♪
♪ She yodeled back
to the lonely goatherd ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
MARIA: ♪ Soon her mama
with a gleaming gloat heard ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl lay-ee-o ♪
♪ What a duet
for a girl and goatherd ♪
ALL: ♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
-MARIA: ♪ Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm ♪
-CHILDREN: ♪ Mm-hmm-hmm-hmm ♪
-♪ Ho-dl-ay-ee ♪
-♪ O-dl-ay-ee-ee ♪
♪ O-dl-ay-ee ♪
♪ Oh-oh-oh-oh
Laydee-o-dl-ay-o ♪
♪ Laydee-o-dl-ee
Laydee-o-dl-ay ♪
♪ Oh-oh-oh-oh
Laydee-o-dl-ay-o ♪
♪ Laydee-o-dl-ee o-lay ♪
(sighs)
♪ One little girl
in a pale pink coat heard ♪
MARIA (bleating): ♪ Laydee-o-dl
laydee-o-dl-ay-woo-woo ♪
BRIGITTA: ♪ She yodeled back
to the lonely goatherd ♪
MARIA:
♪ Laydee-o-dl laydee-o-dl-oo ♪
♪ Soon her mama
with a gleaming gloat heard ♪
♪ Laydee-o-dl
laydee-o-dl-ay-mm-hmm ♪
♪ What a duet
for a girl and goatherd ♪
♪ Layee-o-dl layee-o-dl-oo ♪
ALL: ♪ Happy are they
Laydee-o laydee-lee-o ♪
♪ O-laydee-o
laydee-lay-dee-o ♪
♪ Soon their duet will become a trio ♪
MARIA (bleating):
♪ Laydee-o-dl laydee-o-dl-oo ♪
♪ O-dl-ay-ee ♪
-♪ O-dl-ay-ee ♪
-♪ O-dl-ay-ee-ee ♪
-♪ O-dl-ay-dee o-dl-ay ♪
-♪ O-dl-ay-dee o-dl-ee ♪
-♪ O-dl-lay-dee-o-dl lay-dee-o-dl-ay ♪
-CHILDREN: Whoo!
-Whew!
-(von Trapp laughing)
Bravo!
-MAX: Bravo!
-Very good!
MAX: Bravo! Bravo! Bravo!
VON TRAPP: Wonderful.
Can we really keep
the puppet show, Uncle Max?
-Yes, may we, Uncle Max?
-Of course you may, my darlings.
Why else would I have told Professor
Kohner to send the bill to your father?
-(excited chattering)
-May we really keep them?
-MARIA: Whew!
-Well done, fräulein.
(Maria chuckles)
I really am very, very much impressed.
They're your children, Captain.
My dear, is there anything you can't do?
Well, I'm not sure
I'll make a very good nun.
-(laughs)
-If you have any problems,
I'd be happy to help you.
MAX: Attention! Attention, everyone.
I have an announcement to make.
Surprise, surprise.
Today, after a long
and desperate search,
I have finally found a most exciting entry
for the Salzburg Folk Festival.
Congratulations, Max.
Who will you be exploiting this time?
Ha-ha!
-The St. Ignatius Choir?
-Guess again.
Uh, let me see now.
The, um--
-The Klopmann Choir?
-No, no, no, no, no.
-No, no?
-No, no.
-Oh.
-LIESL: Tell us.
A singing group all in one family.
You'll never guess, Georg.
What a charming idea.
Uh, whose family?
-(laughs) Yours.
-Oh.
-Ah!
-They'll be the talk of the festival.
Hmm.
-(laughs)
-Well, now, what's so funny?
You are, Max.
You're expensive, but, uh, very funny.
But you heard them.
They'll be a sensation!
-No, Max.
-(children groaning)
It's a wonderful idea. Fresh, original.
Max, my children do not sing in public.
Well, you can't blame me for trying.
Children, who shall
we hear from next?
-MARIA: Who?
-CHILDREN: Yes.
-(softly) Are you--
-Yes.
(clears throat) The vote is unanimous.
You, Captain.
Me? I don't understand.
Please.
Ah. Huh, huh, huh, huh.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
I'm told that a long time ago
you were quite good.
Well, that was a very, very, very
long time ago.
-I remember, Father.
-Play us something we know.
-Oh, please, Father.
-Please.
Well.
-Why didn't you tell me?
-What?
To bring along my harmonica.
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Every morning ♪
♪ You greet me ♪
♪ Small and white ♪
♪ Clean and bright ♪
♪ You look happy ♪
♪ To meet me ♪
♪ Blossom of snow ♪
♪ May you bloom and grow ♪
♪ Bloom and grow ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Bless my homeland ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
(together)
♪ Every morning you greet me ♪
♪ Small and white ♪
♪ Clean and bright ♪
(together) ♪ You look happy to meet me ♪
♪ Blossom of snow ♪
♪ May you bloom and grow ♪
♪ Bloom and grow ♪
♪ Forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Bless my homeland ♪
♪ Forever ♪
Anytime you say the word, Georg,
you can be part of my new act--
-(chuckles)
-The von Trapp Family Singers.
I have a wonderful idea, Georg.
Let's really fill this house with music.
You must give a grand and glorious party
for me while I'm here.
-A party?
-CHILDREN: Please, Father! Please!
I think it's high time I met all your
friends here in Salzburg and they met me.
-Don't you agree?
-I see what you mean.
-CHILDREN: Oh, please, Father!
-Children, it's time to go to bed.
Come, now, say good night.
-LOUISA: Good night, Father.
-GRETL: Good night, Father.
-BARONESS: Good night.
-VON TRAPP: Good night.
-Good night, Baroness Schraeder.
-Good night, Father.
MARTA: Good night, Father.
Good night.
FRIEDRICH: Good night, Uncle Max.
It'll be my first party, Father!
(orchestra playing "My Favorite Things")
-Captain.
-Evening, Herr Zeller.
Baroness Schraeder.
Herr Zeller.
-Good evening, Herr Zeller.
-Baroness.
-How do you do?
-Baroness Schraeder.
Good evening.
I suppose you noticed the obvious display
of the Austrian flag in the hallway?
-The women look so beautiful.
-I think they look ugly.
You just say that because
you're scared of them.
Silly, only grown-up men
are scared of women.
I think the men look beautiful.
How would you know?
-Liesl, who are you dancing with?
-Nobody.
BRIGITTA: Oh, yes, you are.
-May I have this dance?
-I'd be delighted, young man.
Why didn't you children
tell me you could dance?
We were afraid you'd
make us all dance together.
The von Trapp Family Dancers.
(all laughing)
GRETL: What's that they're playing?
It's the Ländler.
It's an Austrian folk dance.
Show me.
Oh, Kurt, I haven't danced that
since I was a little girl.
Oh, you remember.
Please?
-Well...
-Please.
All right. Come on over here.
Now you bow, and I curtsy.
-Like this?
-Fine.
Now we go for a little walk. This way.
One, two, three.
Step together.
Now, step, hop. Step, hop.
-Now, turn under.
-(grunts)
Not quite.
This way. Hop, step, hop.
And under.
-Kurt, we'll have to practice.
-Um, do allow me, will you?
Mm-hm.
I don't remember any more.
-Your face is all red.
-Is it?
I don't suppose I'm used to dancing.
(applause)
That was beautifully done.
What a lovely couple you make.
Yes. I think it's time
the children said good night.
Yes, we'll be in the hall in a moment.
We've got something very special prepared.
-Right?
-BRIGITTA: Right.
-(all chattering)
-MARIA: Yes, come on!
All that needless worrying, Georg.
You thought you wouldn't
find a friend at the party.
A bit chilly out tonight, isn't it?
Oh, I don't know.
It seemed rather warm to me.
(whistling through teeth)
MARIA: Ladies and gentlemen,
the children of Captain von Trapp
wish to say good night to you.
♪ There's a sad sort of clanging
from the clock in the hall ♪
♪ And the bells in the steeple too ♪
♪ And up in the nursery
an absurd little bird ♪
♪ Is popping out to say cuckoo ♪
♪ Cuckoo, cuckoo ♪
-♪ Regretfully they tell us ♪
-♪ Cuckoo ♪
-♪ But firmly they compel us ♪
-♪ To say goodbye ♪
-♪ Cuckoo ♪
♪ To you ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, good night ♪
♪ I hate to go and leave
this pretty sight ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, adieu ♪
♪ Adieu, adieu
to you and you and you ♪
♪ So long, farewell
au revoir, auf Wiedersehen ♪
♪ I'd like to stay
and taste my first champagne ♪
-Yes?
-No.
(laughing)
♪ So long, farewell ♪
♪ Auf Wiedersehen, goodbye ♪
♪ I leave and heave a sigh
and say goodbye ♪
♪ Goodbye ♪
♪ I'm glad to go ♪
♪ I cannot tell a lie ♪
♪ I flit, I float ♪
♪ I fleetly flee, I fly ♪
♪ The sun ♪
♪ Has gone to bed ♪
♪ And so must I ♪
♪ So long ♪
♪ Farewell ♪
♪ Auf Wiedersehen ♪
♪ Goodbye ♪
(chatter resumes)
They're extraordinary.
What they would do at the festival!
Oh, young lady, I must
have words with you.
Congratulations.
Georg? Georg, you're not going
to let this girl get away.
She has to join the party.
-No, really, I--
-Shh. Stop. Stop it.
-Georg, please.
-You can if you want to, fräulein.
I insist. You will be my dinner partner.
This is business.
Franz, set another place
next to mine for Fräulein Maria.
Why-- Whatever you say,
Herr Detweiler.
It appears to be all arranged,
doesn't it?
-It certainly does.
-I'm not suitably dressed.
Uh, well, you can change.
We'll wait for you.
All right.
Captain, you must be very proud
of your youngsters.
I am. Thank you, Baroness.
Is there a more beautiful expression
of what is good in this country of ours...
...than the innocent voices
of our children?
Oh, come, now, Baron,
would you have us believe
that Austria alone holds
a monopoly on virtue?
Herr Zeller, some of us prefer
Austrian voices raised in song
to ugly German threats.
The, uh, ostrich buries his head
in the sand...
and sometimes... in the flag.
Perhaps those who would warn you
that the Anschluss is coming--
and it is coming, Captain--
perhaps they would get further with you
by setting their words to music.
If the Nazis take over Austria,
I have no doubt, Herr Zeller, that you
will be the entire trumpet section.
-You flatter me, Captain.
-Oh, how clumsy of me.
I meant to accuse you.
It's very kind of you
to offer to help me, Baroness.
I'm delighted, Maria.
I-- I really don't think I do have
anything that would be appropriate.
Now, where is that lovely little thing
you were wearing the other evening,
when the captain couldn't
keep his eyes off you?
Couldn't keep his eyes off me?
Come, my dear, we are women.
Let's not pretend we don't know
when a man notices us.
Here we are.
The captain notices
everybody and everything.
There's no need to feel
so defensive, Maria.
You are quite attractive, you know.
The captain would hardly be a man
if he didn't notice you.
Baroness, I hope you're joking.
-Not at all.
-But I've never done a thing to--
But you don't have to, my dear.
There's nothing more irresistible to a man
than a woman who's in love with him.
-In love with him?
-Of course.
But what makes it so nice
is he thinks he's in love with you.
But that's not true.
Surely you've noticed the way
he looks into your eyes.
And, you know, uh,
you blushed in his arms
when you were dancing just now.
Don't take it to heart.
He'll get over it soon enough,
I should think.
Men do, you know.
Then I should go.
I mustn't stay here.
-Is there something I can do to help?
-No, nothing.
Yes. Please don't say a word
about this to the captain.
No. No, I wouldn't dream of it.
Goodbye, Maria.
I'm sure you'll make a very fine nun.
Champagne, darling.
I feel like celebrating.
Cheers.
-You know something.
-Perhaps.
Then if you're so clever,
tell me how to get our little fräulein
to use her influence with Georg.
I want those children in the festival.
Elsa, this is important to Austria.
It wouldn't do you any harm either.
I've thought of that.
Well, if it's a matter of influence,
maybe the one you'll have
to be talking to is me.
(applause)
(orchestra playing fanfare)
-KURT: Two.
-MARTA: Three.
LIESL: Four.
-Five.
-BARONESS: Six.
-Seven.
-Eight.
-(baroness grunts)
-Four.
-LIESL: Two.
-KURT: Seven.
-BRIGITTA: Five.
-FRIEDRICH: Two!
-KURT: Six.
-Oh!
(chuckles)
BARONESS: Isn't this fun?
Um...
-Four.
-I'm number five.
-Oh, yes.
-LIESL: Eight.
-LOUISA: Two.
-KURT: Four.
-Six!
-Ohh!
(groans) Two.
KURT: Baroness Schraeder,
do you mind if we stop now?
-We're tired.
-Oh, whatever you want, dear.
We'll do it again tomorrow.
The country's so restful, isn't it?
Have some lemonade.
Oh. There must be an easier way.
I get a fiendish delight thinking of you
as the mother of seven.
-Mm-hm.
-How do you plan to do it?
Darling, haven't you ever heard
of a delightful little thing
called boarding school?
-Baroness Machiavelli.
-Mm-hm.
-Uncle Max, where's Father?
-I think he's in the house.
What's the matter
with all you gloomy pusses?
-Nothing.
-I know what we'll do.
-Let's have a rehearsal.
-What for?
Let's make believe we're
standing on the stage at the festival.
I don't feel like singing.
Not without Fräulein Maria.
Liesl, get the guitar.
Come on, Marta.
-(children protesting)
-Everybody into the group.
You know your places in the group.
Get in your places.
That's right. Now, be cheerful.
Right, give us the key, Liesl.
(strumming guitar)
Now, impress me.
-♪ Ah ♪
Friedrich, Gretl, why don't you sing?
I can't. I've got a sore finger.
But you sang so beautifully
the night of the party.
Come on, all of you. Sing something--
Try-- Try something you know.
Enjoy it. Be cheerful.
All right, Liesl.
♪ The hills are alive ♪
♪ With the sound of music ♪
LIESL: ♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ With songs they have sung ♪
♪ For a thousand years ♪
LIESL: ♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ The hills fill my heart ♪
♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
♪ With the sound of music ♪
LIESL: ♪ Ah ah ah ah ♪
They, uh, just wanted to sing for me,
bless their hearts.
That's lovely, lovely.
Don't stop. Hmm?
-(Georg whistling)
-Uh, something long and cool, Georg?
No, thank you, darling.
-Father?
-Yes, Brigitta?
Is it true Fräulein Maria
isn't coming back?
Fräulein Maria?
Yes, I suppose it's true, yes.
-What have we got here?
-BARONESS: Pink lemonade.
-Laced with, uh, lemonade.
-Ooh.
I don't believe it, Father.
Hmm? Don't believe what, darling?
-About Fräulein Maria.
-Oh, Fräulein Maria!
Didn't I tell you what her note said?
Oh, I'm sure I did.
She said she missed her life
at the abbey too much.
She had to leave us.
And that's all there is to it.
I think I'm brave enough
to try some of that.
She didn't even say goodbye.
-She did in her note.
-LOUISA: That isn't the same thing.
Not too sweet, not too sour.
-Just too, uh... (clears throat) pink.
-(chuckles)
-GRETL: Father.
-Hmm?
Who is our new governess going to be?
Well...
You're not going to have
a governess anymore.
-CHILDREN: We're not?
-No.
You're going to have a new mother.
A new mother?
We talked about it last night.
It's all settled.
And we're all going to be very happy.
Hmm?
Well, all right, all right, all right.
Now, run off and play.
(doorbell rings)
Yes, my children?
-Uh, my name is Liesl.
-Yes, Liesl?
We-- my brothers and sisters--
we want to see Fräulein Maria.
Fräulein Maria?
Oh, Maria!
Come in, please.
Wait here.
I'm Sister Margaretta. I understand
you've been inquiring about Maria.
-We have to see her.
-Will you tell her we're here, please?
-I'm afraid I can't do that.
-Oh, but you've got to.
-We have to see her.
-She's our governess.
-We want her back!
-KURT: She didn't even say goodbye.
-It's very important.
-All we want to do is talk to her.
I'm very sorry, children,
but Maria is in seclusion.
She hasn't been seeing anyone.
She'll see us. I know she will.
I want to show her my finger.
Oh, some other time, dear.
I'll tell her that you were here.
It was sweet of you to call.
-BRIGITTA: Oh, we have to speak to her!
-MARTA: Please!
-(children clamoring)
-Run along, children. Run along home.
-Sister Margaretta!
-Please! Please!
-Goodbye, children.
-Please. Please.
What was that about,
Sister Margaretta?
The von Trapp children, Reverend Mother.
They want to see Maria.
Has she spoken yet?
Has she told you anything?
She doesn't say a word, Reverend Mother,
except in prayer.
Poor child.
It's strange.
She seems happy to be back here,
and yet-- and yet she's unhappy too.
Perhaps I have been wrong
in leaving her alone so long.
I think you'd better bring her to me,
even if she's not yet ready.
Yes, Reverend Mother.
Sister Augusta, take our
new postulant to the robing room.
God bless you, my daughter.
-(knocking)
-Ave!
Yes, bring her in.
You've been unhappy.
I'm sorry.
Reverend Mother.
Why did they send you back to us?
They didn't send me back,
Mother. I left.
Sit down, Maria.
Tell me what happened.
Well, I-- I was frightened.
Frightened?
Were they unkind to you?
Oh, no. No, I was--
I was confused.
I-- I felt--
I've never felt that way before.
I couldn't stay.
I knew that here I'd be away from it.
I'd be... safe.
Maria, our abbey
is not to be used as an escape.
What is it you can't face?
-I can't face him again.
-Him?
Thank you, Sister Margaretta.
Captain von Trapp?
-Are you in love with him?
-I don't know!
I don't know, I--
The baroness said I was.
She-- She said that
he was in love with me,
but I-- I didn't want to believe it.
Oh, there were times when
we would look at each other,
oh, Mother, I could hardly breathe.
Did you let him see how you felt?
If I did, I didn't know it.
That's what's been torturing me.
I was there on God's errand.
To have asked for his love
would have been wrong.
I couldn't stay. I just couldn't!
I'm ready at this moment
to take my vows.
Please help me.
Maria, the love of a man
and a woman is holy, too.
You have a great capacity to love.
What you must find out is how God
wants you to spend your love.
But I've pledged my life to God. I--
I've pledged my life to His service.
My daughter, if you love this man,
it doesn't mean you love God less.
No. You must find out.
You must go back.
Oh, Mother, you can't ask me to do that.
Please let me stay. I beg of you.
Maria, these walls were not built
to shut out problems.
You have to face them.
You have to live the life
you were born to live.
♪ Climb every mountain ♪
♪ Search high and low ♪
♪ Follow every byway ♪
♪ Every path you know ♪
♪ Climb every mountain ♪
♪ Ford every stream ♪
♪ Follow every rainbow ♪
♪ Till you find your dream ♪
♪ A dream that will need ♪
♪ All the love you can give ♪
♪ Every day of your life ♪
♪ For as long as you live ♪
♪ Climb every mountain ♪
♪ Ford every stream ♪
♪ Follow every rainbow ♪
♪ Till you find your dream ♪
♪ A dream that will need ♪
♪ All the love you can give ♪
♪ Every day of your life ♪
♪ For as long as you live ♪
♪ Climb every mountain ♪
♪ Ford every stream ♪
♪ Follow every rainbow ♪
♪ Till you find ♪
♪ Your dream ♪
Now, it's not like my children
to be secretive.
We're not being secretive, Father.
Mm-hm. And it's not like
my children to be late for dinner.
-We lost track of the time.
-Ah.
-CHILDREN: Yes!
-I see.
Who's going to be the first one
to tell me the truth?
Friedrich?
Brigitta? Liesl?
Where do you think we were, Father?
Hmm? Now--
Well, if you don't believe us, you must
have some idea where you think we were.
-(giggling)
-Aha! Marta!
-MARTA: Yes, Father.
-You tell me.
Friedrich told you, Father.
We were berry picking.
I forgot. You were berry picking!
-CHILDREN: Yeah! Yeah!
-All afternoon?
-We picked thousands of them.
-Thousands?
-KURT: I got the most.
-What kind of berries?
-Uh, blueberries, sir.
-Blueberries! Mmm!
CHILDREN: Yes! Yes, of course!
It's, uh, too early for blueberries.
-They were strawberries.
-Strawberries?
It's been so cold lately,
they turned blue.
Aw! (clicking tongue)
Very well. Show me the berries.
-BRIGITTA: We--
-LOUISA: Well--
Show me the berries you picked.
Come on. We don't have them anymore.
You don't have them anymore?
Well, what happened to them?
-We-- We--
-We ate them!
-You ate them?
-Yes!
-All of them?
-They were delicious!
Very well.
Since you've obviously stuffed yourselves
full of thousands of delicious berries...
-Mmm!
-you can't be hungry anymore, so I'll, uh,
just have to simply tell Frau Schmidt
to, uh, skip your dinner.
It's all your fault!
We should have told him the truth.
And made him boiling mad at us?
KURT: It's better than starving to death.
LOUISA: We didn't do anything wrong.
We just wanted to see her.
My stomach's making noises.
The least they could have done
was to let us say hello.
I wonder what grass tastes like.
I feel awful.
BRIGITTA: When Fräulein Maria
wanted to feel better,
she used to sing that song, remember?
-Yes.
-Let's try it.
♪ Raindrops on roses
and whiskers on kittens ♪
♪ Bright copper kettles
and warm woolen mittens ♪
♪ Brown paper packages
tied up with strings ♪
♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
Why don't I feel better?
♪ Girls in white dresses
with blue satin sashes ♪
(Maria's voice joins in) ♪ Snowflakes
that stay on my nose and eyelashes ♪
-♪ Silver white winters ♪
-KURT: Fräulein Maria, she's back!
-♪ That melt into springs ♪
-(all clamoring)
♪ These are a few of my favorite things ♪
♪ When the dog bites ♪
-♪ When the bee stings ♪
-FRIEDRICH: Fräulein Maria!
♪ When I'm feeling sad ♪
♪ I simply remember my favorite things ♪
♪ And then I don't feel ♪
♪ So bad ♪
-Oh, children, I'm so glad to see you!
-We missed you!
Oh, I missed you.
Kurt, how are you?
Hungry.
Gretl, what happened to your finger?
-It got caught.
-Caught in what?
Friedrich's teeth.
-Liesl, you all right?
-Just fair.
Any telegrams been
delivered here lately?
None at all, fräulein,
but I'm learning to accept it.
-I'll be glad when school begins.
-Oh, Liesl.
You can't use school
to escape your problems.
You have to face them.
Oh, I have so much to tell you all.
-We have things to tell you, too.
-I'm sure you do.
The most important thing is that
Father is going to be married.
Married?
Yes, to Baroness Schraeder.
Oh, I see.
BRIGITTA: Oh, Father, look!
FRIEDRICH: Fräulein Maria's
come back from the abbey!
Good evening, Captain.
Good evening.
All right, everyone inside.
Go and get your dinner.
ALL: Dinner!
(chattering excitedly)
You left without saying goodbye.
Even to the children.
Well, it was wrong of me.
Forgive me.
-Why did you?
-Please don't ask me.
Anyway, the reason no longer exists.
Fräulein Maria!
You've returned.
Isn't it wonderful, Georg?
May I wish you every happiness,
Baroness, and you too, Captain.
The children tell me you're to be married.
Thank you, my dear.
You are back to, uh, stay?
Only until arrangements can be made
for another governess.
BARONESS: There you are!
I really must speak to cook
about the wiener schnitzel.
It is entirely too delicious
for my figure.
And it makes you
much too quiet at the dinner table.
-Hmm.
-Or was it the wine?
Oh, undoubtedly the wine.
You have no idea what kind
of trouble I'm having
trying to decide what to give you
for a wedding present.
Oh, I know, I'm enough,
but I do want you to have
some little trifle for the occasion.
At first, I thought of a fountain pen,
but you've already got one.
And then I thought perhaps
a villa in the south of France,
but they are so difficult to gift-wrap.
Oh, Georg, how do you feel about yachts?
A long, sleek one
for the Mediterranean,
or a tiny one
for your bathtub, hmm?
-Elsa.
-And where to go on our honeymoon?
Now, that is a real problem.
I thought a trip around
the world would be lovely.
Then I said, "Oh, Elsa,
there must be someplace better to go."
-Don't worry, darling. I--
-Elsa.
Yes, Georg?
It's no use...
...you and I.
I'm being dishonest to both of us.
And utterly unfair to you.
-When two people talk of marriage--
-No, don't.
Don't say another word, Georg, please.
You see, um...
there are other things
I've been thinking of.
Fond as I am of you,
I really don't think
you're the right man for me.
You're, um...
You're much too independent.
And I-- I need someone
who needs me desperately,
or at least needs
my money desperately.
I've enjoyed every moment
we've had together.
I do thank you for that.
Now, if, um, you'll forgive me,
I'll go inside, pack my little bags,
and return to Vienna, where I belong.
And somewhere out there
is a young lady who I think...
...will never be a nun.
Auf Wiedersehen, darling.
VON TRAPP: Hello.
I-- I thought I just might find you here.
Was there--
Was there something you wanted?
Hmm?
No, no, no, no.
Sit down. Please.
Please.
Uh, may I?
(chuckles) You know, I was--
(clears throat) I was thinking, and--
and I was wondering, uh, two things.
Why did you run away to the abbey?
And...
...what was it that made you come back?
Well, I...
had an obligation to fulfill,
and I-- I came back to fulfill it.
Hmm. Is that all?
And I missed the children.
Yes. Only the children?
No. Yes!
Isn't it right I should have missed them?
Oh, yes! Yes, of course!
I was, uh, only hoping that perhaps you...
perhaps you might, uh...
Yes?
Well, uh...
Nothing was the same
when you were away...
...and it'll be all wrong again
after you leave.
And I just thought perhaps
you might, uh, change your mind?
I'm sure the baroness will
be able to make things fine for you.
Maria.
There isn't going to be any baroness.
There isn't?
-No.
-I don't understand.
Well, we've, um, called off
our engagement, you see, and--
-Oh, I'm sorry.
-Yes.
-You are?
-Mm-hm.
-You did?
-Yes.
Well, you can't marry
someone when you're...
...in love with someone else.
Can you?
(sighs) The Reverend
Mother always says,
"When the Lord closes a door,
somewhere He opens a window."
What else does
the Reverend Mother say?
That you have to look for your life.
Is that why you came back?
And have you found it, Maria?
I think I have.
I know I have.
I love you.
Oh, can this be happening to me?
♪ Perhaps I had a wicked childhood ♪
♪ Perhaps I had a miserable youth ♪
♪ But somewhere
in my wicked, miserable past ♪
♪ There must have been a moment of truth ♪
♪ For here you are ♪
♪ Standing there ♪
♪ Loving me ♪
♪ Whether or not ♪
♪ You should ♪
♪ So somewhere in my youth ♪
♪ Or childhood ♪
♪ I must have done something good ♪
♪ Nothing comes from nothing ♪
♪ Nothing ever could ♪
♪ So somewhere in my youth ♪
♪ Or childhood ♪
♪ I must have done ♪
♪ Something ♪
♪ Good ♪
Do you know when I first
started loving you?
That night at the dinner table
when you sat on that ridiculous pine cone.
-(laughing)
-What? (laughs)
I knew the first time
you blew that silly whistle.
Oh, my love.
♪ For here you are ♪
♪ Standing there ♪
♪ Loving me ♪
♪ Whether or not ♪
♪ You should ♪
♪ So somewhere in my youth ♪
♪ Or childhood ♪
♪ I must have done ♪
♪ Something good ♪
BOTH: ♪ Nothing comes from nothing ♪
♪ Nothing ever could ♪
♪ So somewhere in my youth ♪
(chuckling)
♪ Or childhood ♪
♪ I must have done ♪
♪ Something ♪
♪ Good ♪
-Maria.
-Hmm.
Is there anyone I should go to
to ask permission to marry you?
-Well, why don't we ask the children?
-The children?
(church bells tolling)
(tolling continues)
(organ playing)
(organ continues)
NUNS: ♪ How do you solve
a problem like Maria ♪
♪ How do you catch
a cloud and pin it down ♪
♪ How do you find a word
that means Maria ♪
♪ A flibbertigibbet
a will-o'-the-wisp, a clown ♪
♪ Many a thing you know
you'd like to tell her ♪
♪ Many a thing
she ought to understand ♪
♪ But how do you make her stay
and listen to all you say ♪
♪ How do you keep
a wave upon the sand ♪
♪ Oh, how do you solve
a problem like Maria ♪
♪ How do you hold
a moonbeam in your hand ♪
(bells tolling)
(bell tolls)
(continues tolling)
(stringed instruments playing)
ZELLER: Herr Detweiler!
-Heil Hitler.
-Oh. Good afternoon, Herr Zeller.
Perhaps you've not heard.
I'm now the gauleiter.
-Heil Hitler.
-Oh, uh, heil Hitler.
I have just come from the house
of Captain von Trapp,
incidentally, the only one
in the neighborhood
not flying the flag of the Third Reich
since the Anschluss.
-But we have dealt with that situation.
-I don't think--
The housekeeper told me
that I would find you here.
It was the only information
the woman would give me.
What kind of information
are you looking for?
We want to know when
the captain will be returning.
Well, he's, uh, on his honeymoon trip.
Uh, he's not been in touch with us.
Are you asking me to believe
that the captain
has not communicated
with his children in over a month?
Herr Zeller,
how many men do you know
who communicate with their children
while on their honeymoon?
When he does return,
he will be expected
to fill his proper position
in the new order.
Naturally, naturally.
And may I congratulate you--
that is, your people--
on deciding to allow the festival
to go on tonight as planned?
Why should it not go on?
Nothing in Austria has changed.
Singing and music
will show this to the world.
Austria is the same.
Heil Hitler.
Heil Hitler. (sniffs)
Come on, children, let's go home.
Why was he so cross?
Everybody's cross these days, darling.
MARTA: Maybe the flag with the black
spider on it makes people nervous.
-Is Father going to be in trouble?
-He doesn't have to be.
The thing to do these days
is to get along with everybody.
I want you all to remember that
tonight at the concert.
Are we really going to sing before
a whole lot of people tonight?
Of course.
Look, "The von Trapp Family Singers."
And here are your names--
Liesl, Friedrich,
Louisa, Brigitta,
Kurt, Marta and Gretl.
Why am I always last?
-Because you are the most important.
-Oh!
There we go.
BRIGITTA: Uncle Max, are you sure Father
will approve of our singing in public?
Oh, he'll be pleased and proud.
-Liesl, do you think so?
-Don't you trust me?
-BRIGITTA: No!
-You're a very intelligent girl.
-(chuckles)
-ROLFE: Liesl! Liesl!
Rolfe!
Rolfe, I'm so glad to see you.
It's been such--
Good afternoon.
You will take this, please,
and deliver it to your father
as soon as he comes home.
-He's on his honeymoon.
-I know that.
You do?
We make it our business to know
everything about everyone.
-Who's we?
-See that he gets it.
-What is it?
-It's a telegram from Berlin.
Don't you want to come over tonight
and deliver it yourself?
I am now occupied
with more important matters,
and your father better be, too,
if he knows what's good for him.
But, Rolfe--
CHILDREN: Father! Father!
Father! Father!
-We didn't expect you so soon.
-Hello, hello, hello!
When did you get back?
We didn't expect you home
until next week.
KURT: Did you bring us
any souvenirs from Paris?
MARIA: Hello! How are you?
FRIEDRICH: Why didn't you telephone us?
Well, we tried to,
but we couldn't get through.
I had nothing to do with that, Georg.
We came back as fast as we could.
Well, well, well, well, well!
We missed you!
We missed kissing you good night.
We missed all the noise you make in the
morning telling each other to be quiet.
-Mostly, we missed hearing you sing.
-Oh, you came back just in time.
-Look, Fräulein Maria-- I mean, Mother.
-(all laughing)
We're going to sing
in the festival tonight.
-What?
-(all chattering)
(chuckling) Surprise, surprise!
All right, surprises
for you on the terrace.
(all chattering)
-We'll talk about this inside.
-Georg, I would have told you,
but you were away.
I had to make a last-minute decision.
-I was fortunate to enter them at all.
-Max.
-They'll be the talk of the festival.
Imagine, seven children in one family.
Max!
Somehow I recall having made it
quite clear to you
how I feel about my family
singing in public.
But the committee heard them.
They were enchanted.
-Max, what did they say?
-I have never heard such enthusiasm.
Oh, darling, don't you think--
just this once?
Absolutely out of the question.
Georg, this is for Austria.
For Austria?
(scoffs) There is no Austria!
But the Anschluss happened peacefully.
-Let's at least be grateful for that.
-Grateful?
You know, Max...
...sometimes I don't believe I know you.
Father, I forgot. This is for you.
(door opens, closes)
Maria, he has got to at least pretend
to work with these people.
You must convince him.
Max, I can't ask him
to be less than he is.
Then I'll talk to him.
If the children don't sing
at the festival, well,
it will be a reflection on Austria.
(sighs) Oh, I know.
It wouldn't do me any good either.
-Mother?
-Hmm?
That sounds so nice.
I like calling you Mother.
I like hearing it.
You love Father very much.
-I can tell you do.
-Very much.
Mother, what do you do when
you think you love someone--
I mean, when you stop
loving someone,
or he stops loving you?
Well, you cry a little.
And then you wait for the sun to come out.
It always does.
There are so many things I think
I should know, but I don't.
-I really don't.
-How can you?
Sometimes I feel the world
is coming to an end.
And then you feel
it's just beginning?
-Yes.
-It was that way with me, Liesl.
And for you, it will be
just as wonderful, I promise.
Do you really think so?
♪ When you're sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ Waiting for life to start ♪
♪ Somebody kind who touches your mind ♪
♪ Will suddenly touch your heart ♪
♪ When that happens ♪
♪ After it happens ♪
♪ Nothing is quite the same ♪
♪ Somehow I know I'll jump up and go ♪
♪ If ever he calls my name ♪
♪ Gone are your old ideas of life ♪
♪ The old ideas grow dim ♪
♪ Lo and behold, you're someone's wife ♪
♪ And you belong to him ♪
♪ You may think this kind of adventure ♪
♪ Never may come to you ♪
♪ Darling sixteen going on seventeen ♪
♪ Wait a year ♪
-♪ Or two ♪
-♪ I'll wait a year ♪
♪ Just wait a year ♪
♪ Or two ♪
VON TRAPP: Liesl.
-What is it?
-Berlin.
They've offered me
a commission in their navy.
I've been requested to accept immediately
and report to their naval base
at Bremerhaven tomorrow.
I knew something like this would happen,
but I didn't think it would be so soon.
To refuse them would be
fatal for all of us.
And joining them would be... unthinkable.
Get the children all together.
Don't say anything that's going
to make them worry.
Just get them ready.
We've got to get out of Austria...
and this house...
...tonight.
(crickets chirping)
MAX: It strains my back,
it breaks my heart when I think
of a certain singing group that will
not appear at the festival tonight.
By the time you've made the announcement,
we'll be over the border.
I hope you appreciate
the sacrifice I'm making.
You have no choice.
(grunts) I know.
That's why I'm making it.
MARTA: Why doesn't Father
turn the motor on?
Because he doesn't want
anyone to hear us!
Shh!
LOUISA: What will Frau Schmidt and
Franz say when they discover we're gone?
They'll be able to answer truthfully.
They didn't know anything
about it if anyone asks them.
-Will we be coming back here?
-Someday, Liesl.
I do hope someday.
GRETL: Are Father and Uncle Max
going to push the car
-all the way to Switzerland?
-Shh!
Something wrong with your car, Captain?
Yes, as a matter of fact,
we couldn't get it started.
Karl.
Fix Captain von Trapp's car
so that it will start.
(car engine starts)
Excellent, Karl.
I've not asked you where
you and your family are going.
Nor have you asked me why I'm here.
Well, apparently, we're both suffering
from a deplorable lack of curiosity.
You were sent a telegram,
which you did not answer.
A telegram from Admiral von Schreiber
of the navy of the Third Reich.
I was under the impression, Herr Zeller,
that the contents of telegrams
in Austria are private!
At least the Austria... I know.
I have my orders.
And they are to take you personally
to Bremerhaven tonight
where you will accept
your commission.
I'm afraid that's going
to be quite... impossible.
You see, we, uh--
uh, all of us--
the entire family--
will be...
singing in the festival tonight.
As a matter of fact,
that's where we were going now.
Couldn't possibly let them down now.
-I just hope we're not too late.
-Yes.
And you ask me to believe
that you, Captain von Trapp,
are singing in a concert?
Believe me, it will be a performance
beyond anything even I've dreamt of.
Like you, Herr Zeller,
I, too, am a man of...
hidden talents.
MAX: Yes, um-- Here.
The program.
It says here only the names
of the children.
It says "The von Trapp Family Singers,"
and I'm the head
of the von Trapp family, am I not?
And these, um-- these travel clothes
that you're all wearing?
Our costumes, naturally.
Herr Zeller, this night air is not good
for the children's voices.
Well, a slight delay in my
orders will not be serious.
Therefore, you will sing.
You will all sing,
but only because that's
the way I want it to be.
It will demonstrate that nothing
in Austria has changed.
And when you
are finished singing,
you, Captain von Trapp,
will be taken to Bremerhaven.
Now, if you will all get into your car,
we will escort The von Trapp
Family Singers to the festival.
No escort will be necessary, Herr Zeller.
Necessary?
A pleasure, Captain.
After all, we would not want you
to get lost in the crowds.
-Would we?
-No.
(car engines start)
-♪ Sew, a needle pulling thread ♪
-♪ A needle pulling thread ♪
-♪ La, a note to follow sew ♪
-♪ A note to follow sew ♪
♪ Tea, a drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ A drink with jam and bread ♪
-♪ A drink with jam and bread ♪
♪ Jam and bread
With jam and bread ♪
-♪ Tea with jam and bread ♪
♪ Jam and bread
Jam and bread ♪
-♪ Tea with jam, jam and bread ♪
-♪ Jam and bread ♪
♪ Tea with jam
Jam and bread ♪
-MARIA: ♪ With jam ♪
-CHILDREN: ♪ A-B-C, A-B-C ♪
-♪ With jam ♪
-CHILDREN: ♪ Do Re Mi Do Re Mi ♪
ALL: ♪ Tea with jam and bread ♪
♪ With jam and bread
With jam, with jam ♪
♪ And bread ♪
(applause)
My fellow Austrians...
I shall not be seeing you again,
perhaps for a very long time.
I would like to sing for you now...
...a love song.
I know you share this love.
I pray that you will never let it die.
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Every morning you greet me ♪
♪ Small and white ♪
♪ Clean and bright ♪
♪ You look happy to meet me ♪
♪ Blossom of snow ♪
♪ May you bloom and grow ♪
♪ Bloom and grow forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Bless my homeland forever ♪
♪ Edel-- ♪
♪ Small and white ♪
(children join in)
♪ Clean and bright ♪
♪ You look happy to meet me ♪
(audience joins in)
♪ Blossom of snow ♪
♪ May you bloom and grow ♪
♪ Bloom and grow forever ♪
♪ Edelweiss ♪
♪ Bless my homeland ♪
♪ Forever ♪
I think it'll work.
I shall miss all of you.
I shall miss the money
I could have made with you.
Thank you, ladies
and gentlemen, thank you.
The festival competition
has come to its conclusion,
except, of course, we don't know
yet what that conclusion will be.
And while the judges are
arriving at their decision,
I have been given permission
to offer you an encore.
This will be the last opportunity
the von Trapps will have
of singing together
for a long, long time.
Even now, officials
are waiting in this auditorium
to escort Captain von Trapp
to his new command
in the naval forces of the Third Reich.
(audience murmuring)
And so, ladies and gentlemen,
the family von Trapp again...
...to bid you farewell.
(applause)
♪ There's a sad sort of clanging
from the clock in the hall ♪
♪ And the bells in the steeple too ♪
♪ And up in the nursery ♪
♪ An absurd little bird ♪
♪ Is popping out to say cuckoo ♪
♪ Cuckoo, cuckoo ♪
-♪ Regretfully they tell us ♪
-♪ Cuckoo ♪
-♪ But firmly they compel us ♪
♪ To say goodbye ♪
♪ To you ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, good night ♪
♪ We hate to go
and miss this pretty sight ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, adieu ♪
♪ Adieu, adieu
to you and you and you ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, goodbye ♪
♪ We flit, we float
We fleetly flee, we fly ♪
♪ So long, farewell
auf Wiedersehen, goodbye ♪
♪ The sun has gone to bed
and so must I ♪
♪ Goodbye ♪
(applauding)
(audience chattering)
Ladies and gentlemen, I have here
the decision of our distinguished judges.
We will start with the award
for third prize.
For this honor,
the judges have named...
the first soloist of the choir
of St. Agatha's Church in Murbach--
Fräulein Schweiger.
-(fanfare playing)
-(applauding)
(audience chuckles)
(audience laughs)
(applause)
Second prize to the Toby Reiser Quintet.
-(fanfare)
-(applauding)
And the first prize,
the highest honor in all Austria,
to The von Trapp Family Singers!
-(fanfare)
-(applauding)
The Family von Trapp.
-(fanfare)
-(applauding)
They're gone!
(horns honking)
(doorbell rings)
MOTHER ABBESS: Come with me.
MOTHER ABBESS: Quickly! Quickly!
I have a place you can hide.
Slowly. Slowly.
(doorbell rings)
ZELLER: Open this gate!
Good evening.
ZELLER: Hurry up, woman.
ZELLER: Two men in there!
Six of you, fan out and cover the yard.
You two, cover the corridor.
MARIA: Oh, Reverend Mother,
we didn't realize
we'd put the abbey in this danger.
No, Maria.
It was right for you to come here.
We thought we might borrow
your caretaker's car.
I'm afraid our car
will do you no good now.
I've been listening to the wireless.
The borders have just been closed.
All right, if the borders are closed...
...then we'll drive up into the hills
and go over those mountains on foot.
-The children.
-We'll help them. They'll be all right.
FRIEDRICH: We can do it
without help, Father.
MOTHER ABBESS: Maria.
You will not be alone.
Remember, "I will lift up mine eyes unto
the hills from whence cometh my help."
Yes, Mother.
-MARTA: I'm scared.
-BRIGITTA: Me, too.
God be with you.
-Mother.
-Yes?
Would it help if we sang
about our favorite things?
No, darling.
This is one time it would not help.
You must be very quiet.
Hold tight to me.
(rattling)
LIEUTENANT:
Come on. Let's try the roof.
(Liesl gasps)
Rolfe, please.
VON TRAPP: No, wait!
Maria.
Children.
ROLFE: It's you we want, not them.
VON TRAPP: Put that down.
Not another move!
Or I'll-- I'll shoot!
You're only a boy.
You don't really belong to them.
Stay where you are!
Come away with us... before it's too late.
Not another step.
I'll kill you!
-You give that to me, Rolfe.
-Did you hear me?
I'll kill you!
Rolfe.
(gasps)
You'll never be one of them.
Lieutenant!
Lieutenant, they're here!
-They're here, Lieutenant!
-(blows whistle)
(whistle blowing)
(engines stall)
Reverend Mother.
I have sinned.
I, too, Reverend Mother.
What is this sin, my children?
(engines continue stalling)
♪ A dream that will need ♪
♪ All the love you can give ♪
♪ Every day of your life ♪
♪ For as long as you live ♪
♪ Climb every mountain ♪
♪ Ford every stream ♪
♪ Follow every rainbow ♪
♪ Till you find ♪
♪ Your ♪
♪ Dream ♪
Subtitled by:
Axium Digital, Inc.